Add 1.7 release notes (#484)
kyma-project/website: content/blog-posts/2019-10-30-release-notes-1.7/index.md

---
title: "Kyma 1.7 New Delhi"
author:
  name: "Klaudia Grzondziel, Technical Writer @Kyma"
tags:
  - release-notes
type: release
releaseTag: "1.7.0"
redirectFrom:
  - "/blog/release-notes-17"
---

> Not much time has passed since the last stop in Munich, and yet we're already landing in India with the brand new Kyma 1.7 New Delhi release. There's no wonder we're moving around the globe so fast as the main focus in this release was put on extending Compass functionalities. Apart from that, the Helm Broker becomes more independent as a separate component, and there are also CLI and Security enhancements. Read on to learn more about the new features in Kyma 1.7.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not much time has passed since the last stop in Munich, and yet we're already landing in India with the brand new Kyma 1.7 New Delhi release. There's no wonder we're moving around the globe so fast as the main focus in this release was put on extending Compass functionalities. Apart from that, the Helm Broker becomes more independent as a separate component, and CLI and Security get more improvements. Read on to learn more about the new features in Kyma 1.7.
```

> Not much time has passed since the last stop in Munich, and yet we're already landing in India with the brand new Kyma 1.7 New Delhi release. There's no wonder we're moving around the globe so fast as the main focus in this release was put in extending Compass functionalities. Apart from that, the Helm Broker becomes more independent as a separate component, and there are also CLI and Security enhancements. Read on to learn more about features that are coming with the Kyma 1.7 release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Not much time has passed since the last stop in Munich, and yet we're already landing in India with the brand new Kyma 1.7 New Delhi release. There's no wonder we're moving around the globe so fast as the main focus in this release was put in extending Compass functionalities. Apart from that, the Helm Broker becomes more independent as a separate component, and there are also CLI and Security enhancements. Read on to learn more about the new features of Kyma 1.7.
```

Made the last sentence a bit more concise to eliminate the word "release".

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Not much time has passed since the last stop in Munich, and yet we're already landing in India with the brand new Kyma 1.7 New Delhi release. There's no wonder we're moving around the globe so fast as the main focus in this release was put on extending Compass functionalities. Apart from that, the Helm Broker becomes more independent as a separate component, and there are also CLI and Security enhancements. Read on to learn more about the new features in Kyma 1.7.
```

<!-- overview -->

See the overview of all changes in this release:

> - [Compass](#compass) - Runtime Agent enhancements, Runtime Provisioner first implementation, Tenant Mapping Handler for requests validation, Scenarios view in the Console

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Compass](#compass) - Runtime Agent enhancements, Runtime Provisioner first implementation, Tenant Mapping Handler for requests validation, **Scenarios** view in the Console
```

- [Service Management](#service-management) - Helm Broker v1.0.0 officially released

> - [Security](#security) - Support TLS certificate hot reload

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Security](#security) - Support for TLS certificate hot reload
```

- [CLI](#cli) - Commands for provisioning Kubernetes clusters on GCP and Gardener

## Compass

### Runtime Agent enhancements

Compass Runtime Agent now uses Application names as custom resource names. This affects the way Applications are listed in the Kyma Console. No more pesky IDs - entries are named exactly the same as in the Compass Console!

The second addition to the Runtime Agent involves labeling Runtimes. After a successful connection, the Runtime Agent updates the Director with information on exposed endpoints of the Runtime, such as Event Service URL or Console URL.

### Runtime Provisioner first implementation

> The first implementation of the [Runtime Provisioner](https://kyma-project.io/docs/components/compass/#architecture-components-runtime-provisioner) is here. We have un-mocked the provisioning part of the API – it is now possible to provision clusters on GCP and Gardener projects using GCP credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first implementation of the [Runtime Provisioner](https://kyma-project.io/docs/1.7/components/compass/#architecture-components-runtime-provisioner) is here. We have unmocked the provisioning part of the API – it is now possible to provision clusters on GCP and Gardener projects using GCP credentials.
```

### Tenant Mapping Handler for requests validation

> Starting with this release, the [Tenant Mapping Handler](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/compass/blob/master/docs/architecture/authentication-and-authorization.md#tenant-mapping-handler) validates requests incoming to the Director. It modifies those requests by assigning them to tenants and scopes. The authenticated users and systems can work only in the context of a given tenant and with given scopes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with this release, the [Tenant Mapping Handler](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/compass/blob/master/docs/architecture/authentication-and-authorization.md#tenant-mapping-handler) validates requests coming to the Director. It modifies those requests by assigning them to tenants and scopes. The authenticated users and systems can work only in the context of a given tenant and with given scopes.
```

Reviewer: or sth like `Director incoming requests ` (as it is an adj)

> Since this release, the [Tenant Mapping Handler](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/compass/blob/master/docs/architecture/authentication-and-authorization.md#tenant-mapping-handler) validates requests that are coming to the Director. It modifies those requests by assigning them to tenants and scope. The authenticated users and systems can work only in the context of a given tenant and with given scopes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Starting with this release, the [Tenant Mapping Handler](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/compass/blob/master/docs/architecture/authentication-and-authorization.md#tenant-mapping-handler) validates incoming requests to the Director. It modifies those requests by assigning them to tenants and scopes. The authenticated users and systems can work only in the context of a given tenant and with given scopes.
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Starting with this release, the [Tenant Mapping Handler](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/compass/blob/master/docs/architecture/authentication-and-authorization.md#tenant-mapping-handler) validates requests incoming to the Director. It modifies those requests by assigning them to tenants and scopes. The authenticated users and systems can work only in the context of a given tenant and with given scopes.
```

### Scenarios view available in the Console

> A new **Scenarios** view in the Compass Console shows Applications and Runtimes connected to a specific scenario. It allows you to manage Applications and Runtimes in a given scenario.

Reviewer: And what a scenario is?

Author: I'll add a link

![Details view](./details-view.png)

## Service Management

> ### Helm Broker v1.0.0 officially released!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Helm Broker v1.0.0 officially released
```

> Some time ago, the Helm Broker was moved to the [separate repository](https://github.com/kyma-project/helm-broker). As the next step, we created a whole new release process for it, which is based on the Kubernetes release process. From now on, the Helm Broker will be released after every important feature implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some time ago, the Helm Broker was moved to the [separate repository](https://github.com/kyma-project/helm-broker). As the next step, we created a whole new release process for it, based on the Kubernetes release process. From now on, the Helm Broker will be released after every important feature implementation.
```

> Some time ago, the Helm Broker was moved to the [separate repository](https://github.com/kyma-project/helm-broker). As the next step, we created a whole new release process for it, which is based on the Kubernetes release process. From now on, the Helm Broker will be released after implementation of every important feature.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Some time ago, the Helm Broker was moved to the [separate repository](https://github.com/kyma-project/helm-broker). As the next step, we created a whole new release process for it, which was based on the Kubernetes release process. From now on, the Helm Broker will be released after every important feature implementation.
```

## Security

> ### Support TLS certificate hot reload

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Support for TLS certificate hot reload
```

> Starting with this release, you don't have to manually restart Applications to make them work with new TLS certificates. From now on, the IAM Kubeconfig Service provides `kubeconfig` configurations for users who have updated their certificates, and the API Server Proxy accepts requests that are made using `kubectl` with the new `kubeconfig`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Starting with this release, you don't have to manually restart Applications to make them work with new TLS certificates. Starting with Kyma 1.7, the IAM Kubeconfig Service provides `kubeconfig` configurations for users who have updated their certificates, and the API Server Proxy accepts requests that are made using `kubectl` with the new `kubeconfig`.
```
I thought that maybe we could avoid `from now on` as it was used in the previous section.

> Since this release, you don't have to manually restart applications to make them work with new TLS certificates. From now on, the IAM Kubeconfig Service provides KUBECONFIG configurations for users who have updated their certificates, and the API server proxy accepts requests that are made using `kubectl` with the new KUBECONFIG.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Starting with this release, you don't have to manually restart applications to make them work with new TLS certificates. From now on, the IAM Kubeconfig Service provides `kubeconfig` configurations for users who have updated their certificates, and the API Server Proxy accepts requests that are made using `kubectl` with the new `kubeconfig`.
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Starting with this release, you don't have to manually restart Applications to make them work with new TLS certificates. From now on, the IAM Kubeconfig Service provides `kubeconfig` configurations for users who have updated their certificates, and the API Server Proxy accepts requests that are made using `kubectl` with the new `kubeconfig`.
```

> Starting with this release, you don't have to manually restart Applications to make them work with new TLS certificates. Starting with Kyma 1.7, the IAM Kubeconfig Service provides `kubeconfig` configurations for users who have updated their certificates, and the API Server Proxy accepts requests that are made using `kubectl` with the new `kubeconfig`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with this release, you don't have to manually restart Applications to make them work with new TLS certificates. The IAM Kubeconfig Service now provides `kubeconfig` configurations for users who have updated their certificates, and the API Server Proxy accepts requests that are made using `kubectl` with the new `kubeconfig` file.
```

## CLI

### Commands for provisioning Kubernetes clusters on GCP and Gardener

> We integrated the new [Hydroform](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/hydroform) library into the CLI. It allows you to provision Kubernetes clusters on GCP and Gardener in a convenient way. The command syntax is not stable yet due to ongoing process of  extending the provisioning logic to support more providers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We integrated the new [Hydroform](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/hydroform) library into the Kyma CLI. It allows for provisioning Kubernetes clusters on GCP and Gardener in a convenient way. Bear in mind that the command syntax is not stable yet due to the ongoing process of extending the provisioning logic to support more providers.
```

> We integrated the new [Hydroform](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/hydroform) library into the Kyma CLI. It allows for provisioning Kubernetes clusters on GCP and Gardener in a convenient way. Bear in mind that the command syntax is not stable yet due to the ongoing process of extending the provisioning logic to support more providers.

Reviewer 5: ## Console

### Known issues

- [Default label preset for disabling istio side-car injection is broken](https://github.com/kyma-project/console/issues/1352).
    - In order to disable istio side-car injection in your new namespace, you need to label it manually with `istio-injection=disabled` label

Some time ago, the Helm Broker was moved to the [separate repository](https://github.com/kyma-project/helm-broker). As the next step, we created a whole new release process for it, based on the Kubernetes release process. From now on, the Helm Broker will be released after every important feature implementation.

## Security

### Support for TLS certificate hot reload

Starting with this release, you don't have to manually restart Applications to make them work with new TLS certificates. The IAM Kubeconfig Service now provides `kubeconfig` configurations for users who have updated their certificates, and the API Server Proxy accepts requests that are made using `kubectl` with the new `kubeconfig` file.

## CLI

### Commands for provisioning Kubernetes clusters on GCP and Gardener

We integrated the new [Hydroform](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/hydroform) library into the Kyma CLI. It allows for provisioning Kubernetes clusters on GCP and Gardener in a convenient way. Bear in mind that the command syntax is not stable yet due to the ongoing process of extending the provisioning logic to support more providers.

## Console

### Known issues

> - [Default label preset for disabling Istio side-car injection is broken](https://github.com/kyma-project/console/issues/1352)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The default label preset for disabling Istio side-car injection is [broken](https://github.com/kyma-project/console/issues/1352). In order to disable Istio side-car injection in a new Namespace, label it manually with the `istio-injection=disabled` label.
```

>     - In order to disable Istio side-car injection in your new Namespace, label it manually with the `istio-injection=disabled` label.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

## Backup

### Known issues

> - [Eventing not working](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/issues/5942)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Backup restore for Event Bus fails. See the details in [this](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/issues/5942) issue and read the [troubleshooting](https://kyma-project.io/docs/1.7/components/backup#troubleshooting-restore-troubleshooting-eventing-not-working) section for a workaround. 
```

>     - See [this](https://kyma-project.io/docs/1.7/components/backup#troubleshooting-restore-troubleshooting-eventing-not-working) troubleshooting section to fix the issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
